chore(meta): Document Embedlivesample identifier (#30102)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mdn/writing_guidelines/page_structures/live_samples/index.md

{{MDNSidebar}}

> MDN supports turning code blocks in articles into running samples the reader can see in action. These are called _live samples_ and allows users to see what code output looks like. It also makes documentation dynamic and instructive.

Author: Yes, this is great, tnx.

The live sample system can process code blocks written in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, regardless of the order in which they are written in the page. This ensures that the output corresponds to the combined source code because the system runs the code directly within the page.

> **Note:** "Live samples" are _not interactive_.

## How does the live sample system work?

The live sample system groups code blocks, merges them into HTML and renders the HTML in an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}.
A live sample consists of two parts:

- One or more code blocks grouped together
- A macro call that shows the result of the combined code blocks in an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}

Each [code block](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Howto/Markdown_in_MDN#example_code_blocks) containing code for the output has a language identifier — `html`, `css`, or `js` — that specifies whether it's HTML, CSS, or JavaScript code. The language classes must be on the corresponding blocks of code, and a macro call (`EmbedLiveSample`) must be present in the page to display the output:

````md
## Examples

```html
<!-- HTML code -->
```

```css
/* CSS code */
```

\{{EmbedLiveSample("Examples")}}
````

> The live sample system allows grouping of code blocks in different ways to effectively display the output. The next section describes these methods.

Author: ```suggestion
The live sample system allows grouping of code blocks in different ways to effectively display the output. The next section describes these methods.

```

{{MDNSidebar}}

MDN supports displaying code blocks within the articles as _live samples_, enabling readers to see both the code and its output as it would look on a web page. This feature allows readers to understand exactly what the executed code would produce, making the documentation dynamic and instructive.

The live sample system can process code blocks written in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, regardless of the order in which they are written in the page. This ensures that the output corresponds to the combined source code because the system runs the code directly within the page.

> **Note:** "Live samples" are _not interactive_.

## How does the live sample system work?

The live sample system groups code blocks, merges them into HTML and renders the HTML in an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}.
A live sample consists of two parts:

- One or more code blocks grouped together
- A macro call that shows the result of the combined code blocks in an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}

> Each [code block](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Howto/Markdown_in_MDN#example_code_blocks) containing code for the output has a language identifier — `html`, `css`, or `js` — that specifies whether it's HTML, CSS, or JavaScript code. The language classes must be on the corresponding blocks of code, and a macro call (`EmbedLiveSample`) must be present in the page to display the output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each [code block](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Howto/Markdown_in_MDN#example_code_blocks) containing code for the output has a language identifier — `html`, `css`, or `js` — that specifies whether it's HTML, CSS, or JavaScript code. The language identifiers must be on the corresponding blocks of code, and a macro call (`EmbedLiveSample`) must be present in the page to display the output:
```

````md
## Examples

### Styling a paragraph

In this example, we're using CSS to style paragraphs that have the `fancy` class set.

#### HTML

```html
<p>I'm not fancy.</p>

<p class="fancy">But I am!</p>
```

#### CSS

```css
p.fancy {
  color: red;
}
```

#### Result

\{{EmbedLiveSample("Styling a paragraph")}}

Only the `<p>` element with `class="fancy"` will get styled `red`.
````

- If the ID belongs to a block element, the group includes all the code blocks within the enclosing block element whose ID is used.
- If the ID belongs to a heading, the group includes all the code blocks that are after that heading and before the next heading of the same heading level. Note that code blocks under subheadings of the specified heading are all used; if this is not the effect you want, use an ID on a block element or use a string identifier instead.

> To group code blocks using a string identifier, add a class that begins with `live-sample___` to the code block's language identifier. Add a unique identifier to the class prefix in the format `live-sample___{IDENTIFIER}`. The `live-sample___` prefix along with the identifier helps the live sample system recognize and group code blocks correctly. For example, `live-sample___color-picker` uses `color-picker` as the identifier following the `live-sample___` prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To group code blocks using a string identifier, add an info string that begins with `live-sample___` to the code block's language identifier. Add a unique identifier to the prefix in the format `live-sample___{IDENTIFIER}`. The `live-sample___` prefix along with the identifier helps the live sample system recognize and group code blocks correctly. For example, `live-sample___color-picker` uses `color-picker` as the identifier following the `live-sample___` prefix.
```

Author: Thank you! I've modified it slightly, but it's looking better now

The sections below describe a few common use cases for the live sample system.

### Formatting live samples

If you write a live sample in the "Examples" section, provide a descriptive H3 heading (`###`) for this live sample example. Ideally, write a short description of the example explaining the scenario and what you are hoping to demonstrate. Then add subsections with following H4 headings (`####`), in the order listed:

- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript
- Result

Write the code blocks in the respective subsections listed above.

In the **Result** subsection, add the call to the `EmbedLiveSample` macro. Preferably, include some more prose in this subsection to describe the result.

> If you're not using a particular language type (for example, if you are not using JavaScript) or if you are hiding it, then you should omit the corresponding heading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're not using a particular language type (for example, if you are not using JavaScript) or if you are hiding the code block, then you should omit the corresponding heading.
```

> ### Hidden code
> 
> Sometimes you just want to display the static code block that is pertinent to the example rendered within a page. However you still need HTML, CSS and JavaScript to render such an example.
> 
> To achieve this you can hide any code blocks that are not relevant with the `hidden` class. If you do this, omit the `### HTML/CSS/JavaScript` headings for the hidden code blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hiding code

Sometimes you just want to display the static code block pertinent to the example rendered within a page. However, you still need the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code blocks to render such an example.

To achieve this, you can hide any code blocks that are not relevant by using the `hidden` class. If you do this, omit the `### HTML/CSS/JavaScript` headings for the hidden code blocks.
```

Using the example above but hiding the HTML code would look like this:

````md
## Examples

### Styling a paragraph

In this example, we're using CSS to style paragraphs that have the `fancy` class set.

```html hidden
<p>I'm not fancy.</p>

<p class="fancy">But I am!</p>
```

#### CSS

```css
p.fancy {
  color: red;
}
```

#### Result

Only the `<p>` element with `class="fancy"` will get styled `red`.

\{{EmbedLiveSample("Styling a paragraph")}}
````

### Turning snippets into live samples

> One common use case is to take existing code snippets already shown on MDN and turn them into live samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One common use case is to take existing code snippets already shown on MDN and turning them into live samples.
```

The sections below describe a few common use cases for the live sample system.

### Formatting live samples

If you write a live sample in the "Examples" section, provide a descriptive H3 heading (`###`) for this live sample example. Ideally, write a short description of the example explaining the scenario and what you are hoping to demonstrate. Then add subsections with following H4 headings (`####`), in the order listed:

- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript
- Result

Write the code blocks in the respective subsections listed above.

In the **Result** subsection, add the call to the `EmbedLiveSample` macro. Preferably, include some more prose in this subsection to describe the result.

If you're not using a particular language type (for example, if you are not using JavaScript) or if you are hiding the code block, then you should omit the corresponding heading.

### Hiding code

Sometimes you just want to display the static code block pertinent to the example rendered within a page. However, you still need the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code blocks to render such an example.

> To achieve this, you can hide any code blocks that are not relevant by using the `hidden` class. If you do this, omit the `### HTML/CSS/JavaScript` headings for the hidden code blocks.

Reviewer 2: It’s probably not the right occasion to talk about this, but I just noticed that `css` or `html` bits that we add to fenced code blocks are called “classes”, which might be confusing. They’re not HTML classes, they’re rather [language IDs](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/working-with-advanced-formatting/creating-and-highlighting-code-blocks#syntax-highlighting). As for the `hidden` bit, it’s not even a language ID, it’s something custom that we use.

We might want to separate those in the docs to clarify what’s language ID and what’s a custom command, attribute, or tag. Let me know if it makes sense, and I’ll start a discussion in some other, more proper place :)

Author: No that's a good clarification, language ID is good. I've also seen 'info string' which covers all cases, maybe we could use that instead?

Reviewer 2: Let’s maybe move this discussion out of the issue to some team call or a chat? :)

Reviewer: That is an interesting point @pepelsbey and would be good to clarify in our docs and to use consistently. Thanks for spotting!

We use language ID and like @bsmth mentioned "info strings" in our guidelines for [Example code blocks](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Howto/Markdown_in_MDN#example_code_blocks) and further below on the same page in the section [Additional classes (info strings)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Howto/Markdown_in_MDN#additional_classes_info_strings). The second section has a link to these [GitHub docs](https://github.github.com/gfm/#info-string):

> The first word of the [info string](https://github.github.com/gfm/#info-string) is typically used to specify the language of the code sample, and rendered in the class attribute of the code tag.

Perhaps the section title "Additional classes (info strings)" itself should be updated to "Additional info strings"(outside the scope of this PR).

We can update a few instances (class vs language ID) on the pages touched via this PR.

Author: Thanks both! I would go for "info string" here for now. We can discuss separately later if you like.

* See also in CommonMark: https://spec.commonmark.org/0.28/#info-string

> To achieve this, you can hide any code blocks that are not relevant by using the `hidden` class. If you do this, omit the `### HTML/CSS/JavaScript` headings for the hidden code blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve this, you can hide any code blocks that are not relevant by adding the `hidden` info string to the language identifier. If you do this, omit the `### HTML/CSS/JavaScript` headings for the hidden code blocks.
```

};
```

#### Result

Here is the result of running the code blocks above via `\{{EmbedLiveSample('grouping_code_blocks_by_heading')}}`:

{{EmbedLiveSample('grouping_code_blocks_by_heading')}}

Here is a link that results from calling these code blocks via `\{{LiveSampleLink('grouping_code_blocks_by_heading', 'Live sample demo link')}}`:

{{LiveSampleLink('grouping_code_blocks_by_heading', 'Live sample demo link')}}

### Grouping code blocks by identifier

> This HTML creates a paragraph and some blocks to help us position and style a message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This HTML creates a paragraph and some blocks to help us position and style a message. The `live-sample___hello-world` class has been added to the `html` language identifier for this code block.
```

```html live-sample___hello-world
<p>A simple example of the live sample system in action.</p>
<div class="box">
  <div id="item">Hello world! Welcome to MDN</div>
</div>
```

> The CSS code styles the box as well as the text inside it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CSS code styles the box as well as the text inside it. The `live-sample___hello-world` class has been added to the `css` language identifier for this code block.
```

```css live-sample___hello-world
.box {
  width: 200px;
  border-radius: 6px;
  padding: 20px;
  background-color: #ffaabb;
}

#item {
  font-weight: bold;
  text-align: center;
  font-family: sans-serif;
  font-size: 1.5em;
}
```

> This code attaches an event handler to the "Hello world!" text that makes an alert appear when it is clicked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This JavaScript code attaches an event handler to the "Hello world!" text that makes an alert appear when it is clicked. The `live-sample___hello-world` class has been added to the `js` language identifier for this code block as well.
```

```js live-sample___hello-world
const el = document.getElementById("item");
el.onclick = function () {
  alert("Owww, stop poking me!");
};
```

> The result of running the code blocks above via `\{{EmbedLiveSample('hello-world')}}`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We get this output by running the code blocks above using the string identifier `hello-world` in the `\{{EmbedLiveSample('hello-world')}}` macro call:
```

};
```

#### Result

Here is the result of running the code blocks above via `\{{EmbedLiveSample('grouping_code_blocks_by_heading')}}`:

{{EmbedLiveSample('grouping_code_blocks_by_heading')}}

Here is a link that results from calling these code blocks via `\{{LiveSampleLink('grouping_code_blocks_by_heading', 'Live sample demo link')}}`:

{{LiveSampleLink('grouping_code_blocks_by_heading', 'Live sample demo link')}}

### Grouping code blocks by identifier

> This HTML creates a paragraph and some blocks to help us position and style a message. The `live-sample___hello-world` class has been added to the `html` language identifier for this code block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This HTML creates a paragraph and some blocks to help us position and style a message. The `live-sample___hello-world` string has been added to the `html` language identifier for this code block.
```

```html live-sample___hello-world
<p>A simple example of the live sample system in action.</p>
<div class="box">
  <div id="item">Hello world! Welcome to MDN</div>
</div>
```

> The CSS code styles the box as well as the text inside it. The `live-sample___hello-world` class has been added to the `css` language identifier for this code block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CSS code styles the box as well as the text inside it. The `live-sample___hello-world` string has been added to the `css` language identifier for this code block.
```

```css live-sample___hello-world
.box {
  width: 200px;
  border-radius: 6px;
  padding: 20px;
  background-color: #ffaabb;
}

#item {
  font-weight: bold;
  text-align: center;
  font-family: sans-serif;
  font-size: 1.5em;
}
```

> This JavaScript code attaches an event handler to the "Hello world!" text that makes an alert appear when it is clicked. The `live-sample___hello-world` class has been added to the `js` language identifier for this code block as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This JavaScript code attaches an event handler to the "Hello world!" text that makes an alert appear when it is clicked. The `live-sample___hello-world` string has been added to the `js` language identifier for this code block as well.
```
